
# Coding 210: Parsing JSON using C++

In this Learning Lab you will learn the basics of parsing JSON content using C++.  We will use the [Connected Mobile Experiences (CMX) Mobility Services](https://developer.cisco.com/site/cmx-mobility-services/ "CMX Mobility Services") as a data source and query for the names of the available access points and put them into a simple list for display.  If you want to dig deeper into CMX, review the [Mobility Services Engine (MSE) Learning Lab](#/labs/cmx/step/1).


## Objectives

Completion Time: 20 minutes

* Create a basic C\+\+ application
* Understand the basics of reading and parsing HTTP content using C\+\+
* Save JSON content to file using C\+\+
* Learn how to use C\+\+ to extract only the JSON data you want using the libcurl and the jsoncpp library

## Prerequisites

You will need a capable text editor.

You will want to make sure you have gone through the [Coding 101 lab](#/labs/coding-101-rest-basics/step/1 "Coding 101 Lab") for an introduction to retrieving results from a RESTful service.

##### On Windows #####
You will need Cygwin installed with the gcc compiler and libcurl libraries installed.

You should also have a basic familiarity with JSON.  If you do not, consider visiting the [W3Schools JSON Tutorial](http://www.w3schools.com/json/ "W3Schools JSON Tutorial") to get a firm base to build upon.

For this lab we will be using the Gnu C Compiler (g\+\+) version 4.9.+ tailored for C\+\+.  If you have g\+\+ already installed, you can verify your version by running the following command in a terminal window:
```
    g++ --version
```
If you are on a DevNet Zone learning lab station, the correct version of g\+\+ should already be installed.


## Step 1. Create an executable in C++

C and C++ are compiled languages.  This means that we need to compile our program into object files and then link them into an executable file using a linker.

To get started, let's create a simple C++ file that outputs "Hello World!" to the command line.

1. Create a folder on the desktop called "Coding210"
2. Open a text editor to create a file named **hello.cpp**.
3. Save **hello.cpp** to the Coding210 folder on desktop.
4. Within the text editor add the following lines to **hello.cpp**:

```
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;
int main() {
	cout << "Hello World!" << endl;
}
```
In this snippet, we are:
-  Including the iostream header required for using the standard input/output stream objects
-  Declaring that we are using the standard library namespace: std
-  Defining a main() function which will be called by default
-  Outputting the string "Hello World!" via _cout_, the standard output stream

If you want to just download or review the current code, you can get it from Cisco DevNet GitHub: <a href="https://github.com/CiscoDevNet/coding-skills-sample-code/blob/master/coding210-parsing-json-c++/hello.cpp" target="_blank">hello.cpp</a>.

Next, let's compile the file we just created.
4. Save the **hello.cpp** file with the code added.
5. Open a Cygwin command prompt and navigate the Coding210 directory on the Desktop:
```
cd ~/Desktop/Coding210
```
6. When your are in the local Coding210 directory, in the command prompt window, type the following command to compile your application:
```
g++ -o hello hello.cpp
```
7. When you run the command, you should now see a **hello.exe** file in the directory.  You can list files and folders in your current directory by running the following command:
```
ls
```
**If there are any errors, correct them and retry the compilation.**<br/><br/>
8. If the compilation was successful, type the following command to run your new executable:
```
./hello.exe
```

----------

If everything went according to plan, you should see 'Hello World!' output to the screen.  This is a basic example of an application to verify our compliation toolchain is working and show the bare skeleton of a simple C++ application.  Let's move on and add more functionality in the next step.