## Step 2. Adding cURL library support into the C++ application ##

### Adding support for getting HTTP ###

C and C++ do not come with a native library to access HTML content on the internet via HTTP.  However, there are lots of existing libraries that you can add that do just that.  One of the more popular tools is cURL.  It is not only a command-line utility for accessing web content, but it also provides a library (*libcurl*) that you can use to simplify the complex task of asking for web content.

----------

To enable support for libcurl, we have to do 3 things to allow us to build an application using its functionality.

1. Download the libcurl library
##### On Windows using Cygwin #####
Cygwin allows us to add libcurl support by installing it through the Cygwin package support. This should already be setup on the DevNet Learning Lab for the Cygwin instance, but if you are doing this on your own system you will need to make sure the libcurl libraries are installed.

2. Modify our code to include the Headers needed to use the functionality provided by libcurl.<br/>
To utilize the functionality provided by libcurl, we need to include the programmatic definitions into our own source code and use them as prescribed by the [cURL documentation](http://curl.haxx.se/libcurl/).  To simplify things even further, we will use the cURL "Easy" options for setting up a connection.

3. Change how we compile the application to include the required libraries.<br/>
Since we have installed libcurl via Cygwin, we need to add a flag to our compilation command to include curl.  We can do this by appending "-lcurl" onto the end of our command.

----------

Let's now create a sample application that can reach out to the internet.
1. Start by creating a new file named **main-http.cpp**.
3. Save **main-html.cpp** to the Coding210 folder on desktop.
4. Within the text editor add the following lines to **main-html.cpp**:

```
#include <iostream>
#include "curl/curl.h"
#include "curl/easy.h"

using namespace std;

int main() {

	string uri = "http://www.cisco.com";
    
	CURLcode res;
	CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
    if(curl) {

        curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, uri.c_str());
        res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
        
        if(res != CURLE_OK)
        	cerr << "ERROR: " << curl_easy_strerror(res) << endl;
        else {
			// We should have received data from the URI
        }
        
        curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
    }

    return 0;
}
```
In this snippet, we are:
-  Including the iostream and curl headers required for using the standard input/output stream objects and curl\_easy\_* functions
-  Declaring that we are using the standard library namespace: std
-  Defining a main() function which will be called by default
-  Declaring a URI that we want to get from the internet
-  Instantiating a curl object and calling curl_easy_perform to get data from the URI
-  Finally, we clean up the resources by calling curl_easy_cleanup on the curl object we initialized

If you want to just download or review the current code, you can get it from Cisco DevNet GitHub: <a href="https://github.com/CiscoDevNet/coding-skills-sample-code/blob/master/coding210-parsing-json-c++/main-http.cpp" target="_blank">main-http.cpp</a>.

Next, let's compile the file we just created.
1. When your are in the local Coding210 directory, in the command prompt window, type the following command to compile your application:
```
g++ -o main-http main-http.cpp -lcurl
```
Notice that this is very similar to how we compiled in Step 1.  The main difference is including a -l flag to indicate that we are including the cURL library.<br/><br/>
2. When you run the command, you should now see a **main-http.exe** file in the directory.  If there are any errors, correct them and retry the compilation.
3. If the compilation was successful, type the following command to run your new executable:
```
./main-http.exe
```

----------

If everything went according to plan, you should see HTML content output to the screen.  This is a step closer our final goal and verifies that we can pull content from the internet.  Let's move on and add get some JSON content in the next step.





