## Step 3. Getting JSON Content ##

### Connecting to a JSON URI ###

In the previous step we downloaded HTML content from the internet.  In this step, we would like to get JSON content instead.  To do this, we will need to go to a URI that provides JSON content and also modify our request to accept JSON content from the server.

----------

Let's modify our sample application to get JSON content from the internet.
1. Start by creating a new file named **main-json.cpp**.
3. Save **main-json.cpp** to the Coding210 folder on desktop.
4. Within the text editor add the following lines to **main-json.cpp**:

```
#include <iostream>
#include "curl/curl.h"
#include "curl/easy.h"

using namespace std;

int main() {

    string uri = "https://msesandbox.cisco.com/api/contextaware/v1/maps/info/DevNetCampus/DevNetBuilding/DevNetZone";
    string header_authorization = "Authorization: Basic bGVhcm5pbmc6bGVhcm5pbmc=";
    string header_accept = "Accept: application/json";
    
	struct curl_slist *headers = NULL;
    headers = curl_slist_append(headers, header_authorization.c_str());
    headers = curl_slist_append(headers, header_accept.c_str());
	
	CURLcode res;
	CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
    if(curl) {

        curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, uri.c_str());
		curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_HTTPHEADER, headers);
        res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
        
        if(res != CURLE_OK)
        	cerr << "ERROR: " << curl_easy_strerror(res) << endl;
        else {
			// We should have received data from the URI
        }
        
        curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
    }

    return 0;
}
```
In this snippet, we are:
-  Doing everything we did in Step 2 but now are going to another CMX URI at msesandbox.cisco.com to get JSON content
-  We are adding an Authorization header that does "Basic" authorization with a Base64 encoded user:password of "learning:learning"
-  We are adding an Accept header that is telling the server we would like to accept JSON content
-  We add these headers into a curl_slist called 'headers'
-  Then, before calling curl_easy_perform we set the headers for the call using curl_easy_setopt with the 'headers' passed in

If you want to just download or review the current code, you can get it from Cisco DevNet GitHub: <a href="https://github.com/CiscoDevNet/coding-skills-sample-code/blob/master/coding210-parsing-json-c++/main-json.cpp" target="_blank">main-json.cpp</a>.

Next, let's compile the file we just created.
1. When your are in the local Coding210 directory, in the command prompt window, type the following command to compile your application:
```
g++ -o main-json main-json.cpp -lcurl
```
2. When you run the command, you should now see a **main-http.exe** file in the Coding210 directory.  If there are any errors, correct them and retry the compilation.
3. If the compilation was successful, type the following command to run your new executable:
```
./main-json.exe
```

----------

If everything went according to plan, you should see a blob of JSON content output to the screen.  In the next step let's parse that returned content using a JSON libarary to make it a bit more human-readable.





