## Step 4. Adding JSON library support into the C++ application ##

### Adding support for HTTP ###

As with native HTTP support, C and C++ do not come with a native library to parse JSON.  Similar to cURL, there are existing libraries that you can add that functinality.  The one that we will use in this lab for parsing JSON content is called RapidJSON.

To add RapidJSON support, we will need to do the following:

1. Download the RapidJSON library
##### On Windows using Git #####
Since we do not have the RapidJSON library, it is a common task to pull it's headers and libraries into our environment by using Git to get the code directly.  We can download it from its Git repository at https://github.com/miloyip/rapidjson.git.  From the command line while in your Coding210 directory, execute the following command:
```
git clone https://github.com/miloyip/rapidjson.git
```
This command should download a new directory in your Coding210 called 'rapidjson'.

2. Modify our code to include the headers needed to use the functionality provided by RapidJSON<br/>
By including several RapidJSON headers, we will use several pieces of RapidJSON functionality by including Document, PrettyWriter, and StringBuffer headers.

3. Change how we compile the application to include the required libraries<br/>
To correctly include RapidJSON, we need to add a compilation flag that includes the headers.  We can do this by adding "-Irapidjson/include" to our compilation command.

----------

Let's modify our JSON sample application that can reach out to the internet to return "pretty" version of the JSON we requested in the last step by parsing it and using RapidJSON's PrettyWriter to help output our content.
1. Start by creating a new file named **main-json-lib.cpp**.
3. Save **main-json-lib.cpp** to the Coding210 folder on desktop.
4. Within the text editor add (copy & paste) the following lines to **main-json-lib.cpp**:

```
#include <iostream>
#include <fstream>
#include "curl/curl.h"
#include "curl/easy.h"
#include "rapidjson/document.h"
#include "rapidjson/prettywriter.h"
#include "rapidjson/stringbuffer.h"

using namespace std;
using namespace rapidjson;

struct JSONDATA
{
    fstream *file;
    string *str;
};

size_t write_data(void *ptr, size_t size, size_t nmemb, JSONDATA *data) {

	size_t numBytes = size * nmemb;

    if (data->file)
        data->file->write((char*)ptr, numBytes);

    if (data->str)
        *(data->str) += std::string((char*)ptr, numBytes);
    
    return numBytes;
}

int main() {

    CURL *curl;
    CURLcode res;
    
    string uri = "https://msesandbox.cisco.com/api/contextaware/v1/maps/info/DevNetCampus/DevNetBuilding/DevNetZone";
    string header_authorization = "Authorization: Basic bGVhcm5pbmc6bGVhcm5pbmc=";
    string header_accept = "Accept: application/json";
    
    struct curl_slist *headers = NULL;
    headers = curl_slist_append(headers, header_authorization.c_str());
    headers = curl_slist_append(headers, header_accept.c_str());

    curl = curl_easy_init();
	
	fstream file("content.json", ios_base::out | ios_base::ate);
    string json;

    JSONDATA data;
	data.file = &file;
    data.str = &json;
	
    if(curl) {

        curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, uri.c_str());
		curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_HTTPHEADER, headers);
		curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_WRITEFUNCTION, write_data);
		curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_WRITEDATA, &data);
		
        res = curl_easy_perform(curl);
        
        if(res != CURLE_OK)
        	cerr << "ERROR: " << curl_easy_strerror(res) << endl;
        else {
        
        	Document document;
            document.Parse(json.c_str());
			
			StringBuffer buffer;
			PrettyWriter<StringBuffer> writer(buffer);
			document.Accept(writer);
			
			cout << buffer.GetString() << endl;
        }
        
        curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
    }

    return 0;
}
```
In this snippet, we are:
-  Including the previous headers, fstream header for saveing to file and the new RapidJSON headers to incorporate the functionality
-  Declaring that we are using the RapidJSON namespace: rapidjson
-  Declaring a JSONDATA struct to hold a reference to our file and string of JSON data
-  Implementing a callback function _write_data_ to handle write operations from cURL
-  The CURLOPT_WRITEDATA is set to our JSONDATA structure
-  Then, if everything went OK, we use RapidJSON to parse and prettify our JSON outpu
-  Finally writing the JSON string to the standard output

If you want to just download or review the current code, you can get it from Cisco DevNet GitHub: <a href="https://github.com/CiscoDevNet/coding-skills-sample-code/blob/master/coding210-parsing-json-c++/main-json-lib.cpp" target="_blank">main-json-lib.cpp</a>.

Next, let's compile the file we just created.
1. When your are in the local Coding210 directory, in the command prompt window, type the following command to compile your application:
```
g++ -o main-json-lib main-json-lib.cpp -Irapidjson/include -lcurl
```

3. When you run the command, you should now see a **main-json-lib.exe** file in the directory.  If there are any errors, correct them and retry the compilation.
3. If the compilation was successful, type the following command to run your new executable:
```
./main-json-lib.exe
```

----------

If everything went according to plan, you should see properly indented JSON content output to the screen.  Adiitionally, if you look at the Coding210 folder you will now see a content.json file.  You can look at the content of this file with the following command:
```
cat content.json
```
Executing this command should dump the same JSON content that we saw from the standard output when running the application.

Let's move on and add get exactly the JSON content we are looking for in the next step.





