## Step 2. Python - Scope, Variables, Operators and Simple Conditional Statements

In this step we'll cover the very basics of scope, variables and conditional statements.

### Python Basics

If you've written code in other languages you've noticed that statement blocks define scope (the range that a statement affects or variable exists) which is set by curly braces.  These braces are used to define the start and end of the statement, and therefore, its scope.  Python doesn't use curly braces to define scope.  Instead it uses indentation.  The indentation can be in the form of spaces or tabs, but must be consistent or the Python interpretor will complain.

Consider the Python code below.

``` python
print ("Hello World!")
num = 1
if num < 1:
   print ("I'm less than 1!")
   print ("Goodbye Cruel World!")
```
1. On the first line we print to the screen the text Hello World! which is commonly what developers do when they write their first application.
2. On the second line we create a variable which we call 'num' and assign it the value of 1. By the way we could have called that variable 'brett', 'a' and many other things.  You can read more about [naming variables](http://www.thehelloworldprogram.com/python/python-variable-assignment-statements-rules-conventions-naming/).
3. On the next line we check the value of the variable we called 'num' asking if it is less than 1? The less than symbol **'<'** is an operator.  Python has many operator types with the most of commonly used being [Comparison, Assignment and Arithmetic](http://www.tutorialspoint.com/python/python_basic_operators.htm). This ['if' statement](http://www.openbookproject.net/books/bpp4awd/ch04.html) is called a *conditional statement* because we are checking a condition. If the condition is true, then whatever is inside the scope of the conditional statement gets executed; otherwise it all gets skipped.  
4. Notice that the next two statements are indented.  That indentation signifies that they are inside the scope of the conditional statement.

### Quiz. Scroll Down for Answers
1. If the python code above were run, what would be printed to the screen?
2. If you unindented the line print("Goodbye Cruel World!") what would be printed to the screen?
3. If you only changed the value of num to 0, what would be printed to the screen?
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

### Answers
<ol>
<li>Hello World!
<li>Hello World! Goodbye Cruel World!
<li>Hello World! I'm less than 1! Goodbye Cruel World!
</ol>


## Give it a try!

1. Open a terminal and go to the directory created back in Step 1 named: ** DevNetCode\&lt;your-name&gt;**
    * In the **Prerequisites section** of Step 1 you had cloned the source code files from the git repository into this directory.  Inside the directory you created you should see subdirectory **coding-skills-sample-code**. If that subdirectory does not exist, go back to the Step 1 prerequisites section and follow the steps to create the directory and clone the git repository.
2. Go to directory **coding103-python-json**.  In the terminal type:
**cd \DevNetCode\&lt;your-name&gt;\coding-skills-sample-code\coding103-python-json**
3. To run the script type the python command and then the filename at the command prompt, and press the return key.
    * *On Windows type*: **py -3 helloworld.py**.  Or type: **python helloworld.py**
    * *On Mac OS or Linux type*: **python3 helloworld.py**
4. The program should execute or display an error message.

#### Make these changes and run the helloworld.py script.
1. Open the file **helloworld.py**.  For example, in Windows type: **notepad helloworld.py**
2. Make the change specified in the instructions in question 2 of the Quiz.
3. Save the file.  If encoding type is an option select **UTF-8**.
4. Run the script.
5. Repeat steps 1 - 4, but make the change specified in the instructions in question 3 of the Quiz.

#### Write your first program
1. Create a file called myworld.py .
2. Write python code that does the following:<br/>
   a.  Assigns a value to a variable<br/>
   b.  Checks the value in the variable “Remember if (variable < value):”<br/>
   c.  Prints statements within the *if conditional block* when the condition is true.  Statements under the if conditional statement must be indented!<br/>



**Next Step:**  Learn about Python Data Types
