## Step 2: Configure logging and ask the user for input
The following code performs these steps:

* Specify the logging file and logging level.
* Ask the user if they want to save a list of routers or switches.
* Ask the user for the filename that they want to use for the list of devices when saved.

```python
import logging
logging.basicConfig(filename='mylog.log',format='%(asctime)s %(levelname)s: %(message)s',datefmt='%m/%d/%Y %I:%M:%S %p', level=logging.DEBUG)

logging.info("Begin")
logging.info("Asking user for device type")
# Ask the user what kind of list they want to create
device_type = input("Do you want to create a list of [r]outers or [s]witches?")

# Create a variable called type to hold which kind of device to save
if device_type == 'r':
        type = "router"
else:
        type = "switch"

logging.info("Device type is " + type)

# Ask user for name of the file
file_name = input("Specify the filename to use for the list:")

logging.info("Will save device list to " + file_name)

```
Now, look at what is going on in the code.

* This line `logging.basicConfig(filename='mylog.log',format='%(asctime)s %(levelname)s: %(message)s',datefmt='%m/%d/%Y %I:%M:%S %p', level=logging.DEBUG)` sets the default logging level to be `Debug`, and formats the logging output to include the date and time. It also specifies `mylog.log` as the logging file.
* Logging to indicates which part of the application is being executed. There are different levels of categorizing logs such as `debug`, `info`, and `warn`. The following logging, uses the `info` level.
    * `logging.info("Begin")`
    * `logging.info("Asking user for device type")`
* Next, ask the user what kind of device they want to save to the list
    * `device_type = input("Do you want to create a list of [r]outers or [s]witches?")`
* And then, ask the user for the filename `file_name = input("Specify the filename to use for the list:")`


### Things to think about
* What other steps should you include in the log?

**Next step:**

Proceed to Step 3: Use the DNA Center APIs to retrieve the device list.
